---
title: Memories
---
Why do we have memories?

Small encapsulations of moments that have occured at some point in our lives, but no ability to choose which ones we deem important enough to keep and which ones are lost forever. I wonder where in my brain these experiences are stored and what triggered the neuronal path that resulted in my remembering them. 

Maybe it was the smell of cloves while preparing some mulled apple cider that brings me back to making Christmas orange ornaments in the second grade, or some song or other combination of factors that I will never know–and what happens when these memories are forgotten? They could be simply waiting for the right moment that will unlock them, allowing me to re-live the experience once again in a blurry fashion.

Memories help ground us to reality and remind us of our identity, but if that is the case then why are memories allowed to be so skewed by the emotions felt at the time that they occur? Thiking about the moment brings back not only my vision of the event, but also the sounds and feelings all tied together in some strange way in my mind. Are these memories kept in a single bundle or are they scattered across the brain in the same way that memory is accessed by a computer.

I also find it strange that these thoughts and experiences can't be shared except through words, and unless we write them down all of our memories and thoughts and feelings are condemned to the same fate that we are.

Each moment is a memory that you have collected and whether or not you are able to recall it later, it is still one of the few things that will always remain unique to you and you alone.
